DeepScan. example of a static code analysis tool.
Shodan (shodan.io). organization's current public-facing attack surface. tools that generates a current and historical view of the company's public-facing IP space. first place an adversary might use to conduct reconnaissance on your company's network
tcpdump ex. tcpdump -i eth0 -w file.pcap. tcpdump -i eth0 -r file.pcap
VirusTotal. allows you to quickly analyze suspicious files and URLs to detect types of malware
OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP). most widely used web application scanner. can search for a variety of vulnerabilities, including cross-site scripting issues.
Burp suite. (interception proxy) test web applications
Tamper Data. (interception proxy)
Nikto. Vulnerability scanner for web servers (command line tool)
Arachni. Ruby framework for assessing the security of a web application.
vulnerability scanners. Nessus, Qualys, and OpenVAS
Nessus Professional. Vulnerability Scanner
OpenVAS. Open Source. Vulnerability Scanner
Qualys. Cloud-based vulnerability scanner
ScoutSuite. used to audit instances and policies created on multi-cloud platforms.
Prowler. cloud auditing tool, but it can only be used on AWS.
Pacu. exploitation framework that is used to test the security configurations of an AWS account
openSCAP. plugin to perform configuration and vulnerability scans
SIEM solutions. OSSIM (open source). Splunk. QRadar. ArcSight
secpol.msc. Win. security policy auditor
sc. Win. allows you to create, start, stop, query, or delete a Windows service
wmic. Win. Windows Management Instrumentation. Can terminate a service
services.msc. Win. enable, start, or terminate a running service.
net use. Win list network shares
SCCM. Win. Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager. remote control, patch management, software distribution, operating system deployment, network
access protection, and hardware and software inventory
GPO. Group Policy Object. allows an administrator to create a policy and deploy it across a large number of devices in the domain or network
Process Monitor (Win). advanced monitoring tool for Windows that shows real-time file system, Registry, and process/thread activity
AccessEnum. win. full view of filesystem and registry settings. file with permissions.
certutil. Win. Check integrity. certutil -hashfile
MBSA. Win. Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer. outdated. does not fully support Windows 10 
psad. Linux. detect port scans
getfacl. Linux. allows recursive backups of directories, including all permissions to a text file 
setfacl. Linux. restores those permissions from the backup file 
auditctl. Linux. monitor permissions and ownership changes of critical files
PAM. Linux. Pluggable authentication module. /etc/pam.d. 
file. Linux. Command. encoding, what libraries it is linked to, and its file type
stat. Linux. Command. last time accessed, permissions, UID and GID bit settings, and other details
md5sum. Linux, check integrity 
sha1sum. Linux, check integrity 
xinetd. Linux. Service started with xientd (systemctl new version)(search for possible backdoor)
exiftool. read & write metadata
Mimikatz. post-exploitation tool that dumps passwords from memory, as well as hashes, PINs, and Kerberos tickets
YARA.  tool to write malware signatures
BASS. can generate antimalware signatures
Carving Tools. SIFT (open source). FTK. EnCase. Helix
Volatility Framework. can capture memory artifacts but is not designed to capture a full virtual machine
DumpIt. Windows memory capture tools for forensic use
EnCase. Windows memory capture tools for forensic use
John the Ripper. Command line tool for crack passwords
Cain & Abel. crack passwords
Ophcrack. fastest. crack passwords
Hashcat. fast. crack passwords
Scalpel. carving and indexing application. identify files in a partition or volume that is missing its index or file allocation table

URL ENCODE
%20 -> ' ' (SPACE)
%3d -> =
%3A -> :
%27 -> '
%22 -> "
%3C -> <
%3E -> >
%40 -> @

